More internal thread, how does he change?
Bring more Brebeuf into the movie. Give him scenes where his philosophy is embodied.
Is this a mood piece or a 'structural' philosophy piece?
Give him more time?
Take him out of that space.
What does Jesuit space look like? Sterile? Clean. Body is hidden or diminished.

Jesuit space is the chapel from the Scarlet Empress (full of icon paintings of starving saints and statues of deformed penitents, with a big ass door. The door has icon painting panels.) The body is depressed here.

In Rabelais' fiction, the human body is a theater of transformation. His art ignores the body's smooth surface and focuses on its excrescences and its orifices: the gaping mouth, loins and anus. The grotesque body is constantly active, exceeding its margins: a body in the act of becoming. It is never finished, never completed: it is continually built, created, and builds and creates another body - Eating, drinking, defecation and other elimination (sweating, blowing of the nose, sneezing), as well as copulation, pregnancy, dismemberment, swallowing up by another body - all these acts are performed on the confines of the body and the outer world, or on the confines of the old and new body. In all events, the beginning and end of life are closely linked and interwoven.

 Corpus alienum (foreign body)
 corpus liminalis (body threshold)
 
To Add:
More border transgression visually: cups spilling, mouths overflowing, knives penetrating (when they kill him)

A scene with the dutch traders, he spends time with them. But it is still stilted and lonely. He says the lacan quote: "What good are all you lovers, if none of them can give you the unverse?"

Add a scene with a kettle, he trades for kettle with the dutch traders. The dutch have guns. A scene of him boiling water in the kennel and watching the water turn to the piping fluted whistle.



From Caity;
More obvious motivation. This, but, therefore.
more tension between Jesuit and Dutch
Foreshadow the rock thing.

A scene of the jesuit lost in the woods. He is following the huron. He shouts "Hey, friends. Where are you?" 

Make the whole thing flow more. What is stopping you. What does each scene teach us. read it as if i had never seen it before